Based on the results in this chapter, suppose you were asked to summarize what you
learned about whether first babies arrive late.

Which summary statistics would you use if you wanted to get a story on the evening
news? 

The summary statistics I would use if I wanted to get a story on the evening
news is the variance. The variance is 7.3 weeks so people might see that and be surprised about it. 
In addition, I would mention the outliers in the data, like the ones that are over 42 weeks. This 
can also surprise people.  
  


Which ones would you use if you wanted to reassure an anxious patient?

To reassure an anxious patient I would use the mean summary statistics. This will show the patient 
that it is extremely likely for the pregnency length to take about 38.6 weeks. I would also mention about 
the standard deviation to show that a deviation of 2-3 weeks is common.  
  


Finally, imagine that you are Cecil Adams, author of The Straight Dope, and your job is
to answer the question, “Do first babies arrive late?” Write a paragraph that uses the
results in this chapter to answer the question clearly, precisely, and honestly.

Do first babies arrive late? To answer this question a statistical study has been done to show the 
difference of arrival between first born babies and other babies. The first statistic we will talk about 
is the difference in the means of both groups. A mean is similar to the average. The mean of pregnancy 
length of first born babies is 38.601 weeks. While the mean for other babies is 38.523 weeks. The 
difference between these values is 0.078 weeks. This is equal to about 13 hours. In percentage the 
difference is 0.2%. This is a very small and not noticeable difference. To summarize, the difference 
between the pregnancy length of first born babies and other babies is so small that there is basically 
no difference.
